a) List out the features of HTML5.

1. Semantic Elements
When constructing an HTML script, the term “semantic” refers to the meaning of the text. Semantics, to put it simply, 
is the use of HTML tags that accurately reflect the content they contain. For instance, using the <div> tag doesn’t 
suggest the content it will carry, however using the <p> tag suggests it can be used to hold paragraph information. 
There are a lot of reasons why you should write Semantic tags instead of normal HTML tags, to leverage SEO, 
accessibility, and browser compatibility. 

2. Audio and Video Support
One of the many HTML 5 features is the support for audio and video. It has reduced the hassle of relying upon 
third-party services such as Adobe Flash player. To embed Audio and Video into your HTML document, you may use 
the following two tags, <audio> and <video> tags. 
These two tags are launched with the release of HTML 5 and support a numerous range of attributes such as height, 
width, and more that offers developers to leverage the customization of HTML documents.

3. Canvas Elements
Canvas Elements is a top-notch feature that has made the tedious task of handling graphics easier for developers. 
With the help of Canvas elements, you can easily draw graphics using JavaScript. It is optimum for creating simple 
animations and drawing photo compositions. 
To initialize the Canvas element <canvas> tag is used with only two specific attributes, width and height. 
Once, the element is initialized, it is then taken care of with the help of JavaScript to draw shapes, lines, 
images, and more.

4. Geolocation API
The Geolocation API is an HTML feature that is used to access the geographical position of a user, however, it is 
not accessed unless the user approves of it. If you’re wondering where this feature is useful, these come in handy 
while creating apps like taxi apps, food order tracking apps, fitness tracking apps, and more. 
The location is achieved in a way that a user sends their longitude and latitude and this data is sent to the 
backend server, after which we access that data to create all these fancy applications. 

5. Local Storage 
It is a modern feature of HTML and several browsers that typically store data in the user’s browsers and can access 
them with the help of JavaScript APIs. This feature is useful for creating offline applications where data is need 
to be stored locally. 
Moreover, using this feature you can reduce the transactions between the application and the backend server, 
creating a fast application. However, there are some limitations, such as there is limited storage, and you can 
not access more storage than that. 

6. Responsive Images
Earlier to create responsive images on the web, you have to rely upon several lines of CSS and sometimes 
JavaScript, however, HTML 5 makes the process handy by including srcset attribute to specify multiple versions 
of an image at different screen resolutions. 

7. Web Workers
When you are performing several demanding tasks at once, the browser gets sluggish and responds slowly. Because 
of this, web workers were added to HTML 5 to allow scripts to operate in the background without interfering with 
the UI thread. 
This may be used to execute demanding operations like multimedia processing in the background. To further demonstrate 
the usage of Web Workers, we shall create a simple counter app that starts the counter when you click ‘start’ and 
stop the counting when you click ‘stop’. 

8. Drag and Drop API
Drag and drop is among the most unique features of HTML5 that allow you to grab any element in the DOM and drop 
it to a different location. To create an element able to drag and drop, set the attribute “draggable” on the tag 
and put its value to true. 

9. Form enhancements
HTML 5 introduces new features for your existing forms on HTML to create a more robust user experience. Some of 
the key enhancements in the new HTML 5 include new input times such as email, URL, and more, placeholder text, 
required fields feature, validation, and more. 

10. Web Sockets
In the previous versions of HTML, when a client sends a request to the backend server, the server then responds 
afterward. However, in HTML 5 we can establish a bidirectional live communication between the server and the client 
(a web browser) to reduce the latency in the responses. 
It has its usage in large-scale applications due to its capability of handling large amounts of connections 
simultaneously between the server and the client such as online gaming applications, live trading, and other 
live low-latency applications. 

